## Airline Passengers Satisfaction Prediction Model
We developed a model that identifies and predicts the satisfaction of passengers using key attributes from the dataset for preliminary purposes by using its demographic data recorded from surveys and feedback. This insight will assist the airline company to improve its customer’s experiences, acquire new & retain customers.  Enhancing customer’s satisfaction will increase the airline company’s viability within the aviation industry, ensuring future growth from its competitiveness and reputation. It is important to know the wants and needs of a customer to achieve passenger satisfaction. Customer satisfaction is a key element for businesses as it serves as a continuing effect of service quality improvement. The final classification algorithms for this research include Logistic Regression, Random Forest Classifier, Decision Tree, KNN and ADA boost.
## Data Set 
Our dataset is provided by the Kaggle website and consists of airline passengers' experiences while flying and their satisfaction.  The dataset contains 25 attributes and a range index of 25,976 entries.
## Data Preprocessing 
Data cleaning is a vital role in deriving the output of a machine learning model. Our data preprocessing is the first step in the data mining and data analysis process that takes raw data and transforms it into a format that is simple to understand and analyze.
## Exploratory Data Analysis 
Data visualization role is an important key in developing and understanding the data before the model implementation. Summarizing the variables, we analyzed their skew and metrics relative to each other. Satisfaction levels are justifiably distributed. To understand the relationship between the feature variables and the target variable we leverage the data and examine the distribution of satisfaction within the attributes by finding its positive and negative correlation. Correlation Matrix – shows all pair correlations between variables, these pairs can have positive and negative correlation. 
## Research Business Problem 
Our report on the Evaluation Data Analysis reveals that level 1, 2 and 3 from categorical variables (ordinal) are often under unsatisfied customers. Their satisfaction is less likely to be fulfilled and seems to be linked to customer type – loyalty. Customer loyalty will increase the possibilities of customer satisfaction. Customer will need a positive experience such as great customer service (on board service), online booking, seat comfort, inflight entertainment, and cleanliness. Per our Correlation Matrix the highest positive variable ‘Online Booking’ – airlines should focus on improve a user-friendly customer interface site as business travelers enjoys the comfort and pleasure while flying.
## Project Timeline
October 2022
## Languages / Frameworks 
Google Colaboratory (Python: NumPy, Pandas, Matplotlib, Seaborn) & Machine Learning (Regression, Classification) 
